My dream is to be able one day to go on stage in
English in a comedy club here for ten
minutes and do my thing in
angling to get the reaction from talking
English
and allows me to bring
him here and your listening to the world and words that was the Moroccan
French comedian aghast. Elmo was with
Jerry Seinfeld in the web series Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee.
I mentioned Garrett in a pod cast several weeks ago is a big deal in France.
He does shows in big arenas for thousands of people and then he gave it
all up to come to the U.S. where he is relatively
unknown and tried to do standup in English a language. He is still learning.
So for many months he's been touring around the country performing in small clubs some of which are
so small like
Johnny's here in the Boston area that he could even touch the ceiling.
And that's where Osama few weeks ago. He also dropped by the
studio when you get a laugh in English. Even in front of one hundred people. It's
wow it's feels really
good GED has been documenting his English language journey. He recently put out
a short film ten minutes in America in the film he gets advice from the likes of
Jerry Seinfeld and Sarah
Silverman was like I want to go build a car but I want to build it in Germany.
OK And he was a really in Germany then I'm going to go to Italy and I'm helping up a
pasta factory and then we're going to France I want to make wine. OK All right OK And then I'm
going to England and I'm going to write someplace.
OK Right. And then I'm going to go to America and I'm going to
do standup comedy. Yeah so those people are used to the
bass plays in England wine in France cars
in Germany pass in Italy almost the most of Morocco.
You know you see the lot with. We don't of course.
OK we don't have any theories anyway it doesn't
matter
if it was me honestly. It was me and I had what you had in France I would you
would
say
you have to start all over you're starting over you go into little round you do a
little bit of time. Five ten minutes. You have to use
the first of all no English.
Oh yeah I know English but my english is not excellent but I think I just had
to
translate. That it's not just translating I mean you have to have to craft
a joke you have to your human need some years to figure it out only
to come out here and do like a two
thousand person a no no I didn't know it yet
anyway
so there is right and GAD normally knows. Comedy is not just a matter
of translation in the beginning when I got here in the U.S. I said you know what I have a great show.
It's a ninety minutes in in France in France got killed
every night. It's great I'm going to translate that so I worked with the
English teachers in a translate in my math surreal and they immediately realized that was
not at all what I needed to do for example I had many jokes
about you know when you go to the restaurants. It's the air conditioning
and it's freezing and then the first thing they do they bring you a glass with ice
water why do they why would they do this we don't so French people they were laughing a
lot and then I did this in a comedy club one night and Americans were like just this
is you know this is what we
do this week. Gads dream that he spoke about while getting coffee with Jerry
Seinfeld is becoming even more of a reality. His first English language show.
Oh my. Gad. Yes he is. A fan of the pond is opening in
New York
City to be honest like two years
ago I could never imagine that I would be able
to do a show a whole show in English. And even a
home conversation. Now you can go to very fluent I mean
now because you don't know but in New York I wake up every
morning and I have two hours
lessons lesson the same lesson of English with my English
teacher every morning two hours every morning and every morning
I think to that. Yeah.
Now on your T.V. set. Yes yes told
told go and tell God you want me to do the yes to same
be told really.
How can I do this in my eyes that we
have to stop every minute and would like to have you know you got to be a joke in you having to
Yap every minute.
Dad was born in Casablanca Morocco. He speaks four languages
Arabic French Hebrew and now English was Arabic your first
language
French French a little girl in French so in the house he spoke French here in
Arabic both Alyami and Morocco. You know I spoke to two languages and I
learned Hebrew in Morocco. It's a hard language but.
Surprisingly it's very close from Arabic. Yeah there's a lot of the same odd name
roads and same it's very connected. So you know in Hebrew so you spoke all of those in the
how yeah yeah. Of those languages but I mean mainly French you know
and then I learned
English. I started to learn very seriously English just like two years ago.
Oh really really. Like seriously. I used to speak like
this and but the most difficult
thing with the English is to grammar the tenses. You
know and it's exhausting. No I'm talking to you I'm
happy but I'm going to go home and take a nap. Oh yeah because my
brain is consistently working trying to
translate what I want to say from the French to the English. I was
your French. There is no fun. You took two years of French you know I took I
I I never you're going to make it so Spanish Yeah that's good.
OK OK. What was the first joke that you ever told ending
which allow it was kind of an impression of
Americans because everyone keeps asking me why did you want to do to stand up in English that
your language is going to be
hard and I said I always give them a very American on sir.
And it's not a joke it's more of a little citation.
So I. When people ask me why do you want to do your standup in English I said you know I
need to challenge
myself. But I was so I had
no idea I don't
know and they're right the swear to god I don't think
Jerry Seinfeld with Go to do
those I must say and
today I want to just post was the first thing is the challenge in
my cellphone from say no you have to be crazy to do
that and it was like the first
tryout the first time I would try something in English were you
scared I was very scared but I want you know it was like a strategy very
I started my
shows in French for French experts in the beginning in the U.S. than
I you know put it up a T. I used a little by little I put some English in
my act and then more and more anguish and then I did the whole show in
English when you're doing stuff in English. Do you feel like a different person a different kind
of comedian are you still doing observational humor and the same way you do in France.
I think I'm
a different comedian. Let me explain that to you in my shows in friends.
I love to do jokes
about self deprecating this is how you say deprecation your
self
deprecation talking about the fact that you're famous but you still have this problem
this problem this is annoying this
is obviously I can not use all these make any here because they don't know
me laugh to change my whole act. I write jokes
about coming to America doing the stand up my perspective
on Americans. The difference between you know French cab drivers
and American cab drivers in airports
and everyday life you know you've been traveling all across the US yelling
this and yeah I'm wondering what preconceptions you had about the U.S. that totally were blown out of the water.
I like this expression blow in blown out of the water so totally blown out of
the water flowing out of the
water interesting because you know what I had so many cliches. You know
I had saved two conceptions pre-conception and they went all
wrong like you know the cliche about Texas is not true.
I'm not quite sure exactly which Texas cliche Gadd was referring
to perhaps it's along lines of what the Norwegian the Iranians think about
the over the top crazy wild Texas. We've got a whole pod cast about
that which I'll link to you but back to gad and cliches A little
backstory for a
second a few weeks ago after I watched Gads that I met him after the
show and he asked me first and
feedback and I was honest there was one joke about an Indian cab driver in New
York City that felt well. For lack of a better word
two obvious. Speaking of cliches. Yeah I remember the joke that I could take from
your Of course I mean talk a little bit about that of course so I yeah of
course I really thought. About it a lot. Well first we got
to set it up the gist of the joke was poking fun at the fact that the cabbie was on the phone speaking another
language while driving a cab and GAD mimics the sound of the cabbie's
language and for a guy that spends a good portion of the night talking about his own struggles
in a foreign tongue the joke kind of just fell off the mark and I told
him so and you thought that I was being really P.C. and that's the reason
why you are pretty I like this B. C. just this letter is right I
AM NOT A Z
D I D. You know pretty it when you know what P.D.F.
public displays of the phone you know I just learned last week was really I
was with a girl in a subway in New
York doing P.T.A. I wanted to do it she was in and you ask her that
way can I do P.T.A. know I started to do something and she said she was not
into P D
A And what did you say I thought about the
Singur but it was P.D. has nothing to do with BT A and B.
the it's weird Is there an expression for P.T.A. in French. No it's
just
living. It's life. It's just being a
life so I did the job. Well
you know you know all of that you know you do NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO I said in our podcast that it
was set up.
You didn't joke about cabdrivers and your yeah I know to make an Indian accent.
Yeah which I found easy. You know that was the whole critique but it's a reality.
It's a reality sure I thought rather than really funny.
I was thinking about that because I've been thinking about this for years longer than I She is my writer now she's
my comedy writer my my partner and I were thinking honestly like a long time reeling back. How would
it be like super funny if he started to suddenly turn to you and completely
unaccented
English told you know. Or maybe maybe that would be funny if he speaks French.
Oh yeah oh yeah sounds exactly like that would be like so yes exactly that would be a good.
With their need it just means yeah I know it's a twisted need to get him ready to
be self-deprecating. And I think that this I like it. This I buy that but I'm going to try
it but if I bomb.
You can write me a note.
OK I'll get I'll try this
tonight in Boston and then you can blame me and then I was a reporter I don't know me
but thank you and send you flowers without a lot of champagne and your
partner would be you know you really
have it will be we'll be really excited. I can always use a bad ending and
not just drop this you know from well well well
see you
seriously see that is not the definition of P.C. I mean you seem like for
a comedian like I was very balanced like you know you got it
together happy person no no no really.
Do you know this story about the guy who want to see a doctor in a
small city and said doctor. I'm so
sad I want to kill myself I can't stop
crying and the doctor said you know what you're lucky because
the great the best clown of the history but
cello is in town and you're lucky that he's in town.
So it's going to be fine and the guy looked at the doctor and said I am but
Chad. This is
my story. This is all. Someone really needs
and
P.D.A.F. what is good in United this inclusion
to say that's what he's only good only in France you have good food in the States.
What's with the air conditioning gave your guys what's wrong with you what's
so sweet freezing everywhere.
It's freezing everywhere
while in France we spend hours sitting at a table at
the restaurant. We link your we feel those of. Why we
talk with say.
In America they do but when you're dong the grabbed your plate
so far I don't know how they synchronize that maybe to
have cleaning the kitchen you know it's something with multi comes on your face isn't a manager in
the kitchen
takes table fourteen laughter by table
fourteen on your mind get ready Scott told the
bank but it didn't before they got to play the
attitude. This is my favorite question. My favorite line of all in America
are used to working
off.
I mean worst gig because you're in America everything is a
job when you do
the stand when you go really close to you as you do
the tour there is something
very simple in the stand up comedy.
Like I experienced something that I cannot experience anymore in
France yesterday night I walked
out from the venue and I did a little video that I posted
on Instagram for my friends fans. I was walking alone in the
streets of
Boston and I said I guys I mean Boston just did a show in English on
the loan in the streets but I'm excited it's OK I'm
starting over. It's like this you gotta be alone. There's no crew there is
no security bodyguards and three yes cisterns and
the driver and whatever you have when you're on tour
and and I like it. This simple thing that I'm experiencing now. I
like it you know just what matters. What's the
most important thing essential is your jokes your
material your writing.
There is no Shante the Seante like.
Topping say that they are all wrinkles. Yeah this is just super flu this
is just the paraphilias you know there's nothing I was not
expecting to like it like that you know I thought it was going to be March stressful
more stressful.
So basically you had to leave your country and your language to kind of find yourself again yet
to find what's funny in your I mean
again you know and you know and I try
to to be
immersed emerged or immersed I don't know immersed I hope you know year
from now.
My English will be really really good one year
I allow myself one
year and during that year. You got to learn French. Well you know I
give you want to hear what's it's one year I write
two
years. I think I need a lifetime. I think I need to move there.
I think that's the key right is moving to a place like now that you're so you know I very day. Yeah I
think if you're surrounded by just English speakers. It's going very fast.
You have no choice improving in the language you don't
have to judge yourself it's hard I know it's hard because I want to do good. I want to
sound
good but it's OK if you make mistakes you know now I started to
be more tolerant with myself I used to not talk because I didn't
have the
right phrase with the good words and know it just take risks
on OK just talk they will understand they know you're not from here. It's OK. Doesn't matter
you don't have it exactly the way we should say it's
OK I imagine that if you get to a certain level of
fame and you are doing observational comedy then he's sometimes have a hard
time connecting and observing in the world. That's kind of
been you kind
of sort of trying to keep the world away and then you're trying to also observe the world. Yeah.
So that's hard I feel like. Maybe this opens up a new way of observing the
world thought only you
said what I would like to say but do with a good English.
Gad thanks so much for coming in so much what language is next Chinese That's the next language you have to learn and
he
and China not the new
English
land lines.
Next you
do
not need the
new English There's gotta be a joke in there somewhere. Dad I'm away French
superstar English language learner to show. Oh my God
opens this week at Joe's Pub in New York City and runs through June we get to the city. You
should definitely check it out see what you think about the cabbie joke.
And speaking of the New English. That is
Chinese the world in words is big possible in parts
by the National Endowment for the
Humanities celebrating fifty years of
excellence that is the voice of Patrick's mother in
law and I'll let him explain the origins of her accent.
So we know that my mother in law. Connie MAOIs Chinese here's the really
interesting thing and I actually I didn't know all of these details until I asked us to record
this she was born and spent the first few years of her life
in southern China Guangdong where they speak Cantonese so that was mother
tongue that was her first language. She then moved when she was about ten
years old to Sichuan province
and what would you call that the west of the center of China.
And she learns that Sichuan was. Which is such one dialect.
So that was a second language such One was she then moved to the United
States with her family when she was
seventeen she had picked up a little bit of Mandarin the
quote national language of China along the way but she really was
not particularly conversant in it she says that she learned most of it in the
United States.
So it's a very particular. Accent. She had she she described it to
me as a combination of Cantonese and
Sichuan
and that's all for this week we'll have a new. Accent quiz for you and tweet
out a legal pad or you can hit me
up at four you see that Speedo are you seeking
I thank you for
listening sound work. Sound works
from
P.R.I. meaning letter yellow and I saying like a nice to have a problem
facing a few phrases for an iron
or gel You're a silly
man.